We talked about two relationship types, one-to-many and one-to-one,
now we have to understand the third relationship type, the many-to-many relationship.
So here I am not in our project file but in our Power BI file that you can find attached to that video.
In this file,
if you go to the data model and to the data view, you will you can find three tables.
The first table is the product type table, in this table,
we have two columns, the ID car column and the color column.
So we have four different card types,
ABCD. The second table is the cars produce table right here,
here we again if the ID of the cars, we have the units produced and we have the year of production
and we have a third table, the cars sold table, right here.
Here we can see that we again if the ID of the car, we have the units sold and we have the year when
the units were sold.
Now the important thing that you might have seen is that in the cars produced and in the cars sold table, the ID
of the car exists multiple times as you can see right here and in the cars produced table right there
and in the product type table, we only have the ID car once. This is going to be important in a few minutes,
so keep that in mind.
Now let's go to the report view
and here I prepared two charts for you. In the left chart, you can see the units produced and the units
sold and in a right chart,
well you can see the same thing, right?
Not totally true because if you click onto the left chart and now go to the visualizations column, you
can see that we have the axis, the ID car and two values.
So far, well you don't understand a lot of that, right?
But if you go to the fields column then and then open the cars produced and the car sold table, then
you can see that the ID car and the units produced are both based on one table,
the cars produced table. The units sold are coming from the cars sold table,
so from a separate table and this is the reason why at the moment, you can see the units produced with
a correct value but the units sold always with the same value because at the moment, both tables cannot
communicate with each other,
we know that problem from the last video.
However if you click onto the second table right here, you can see that we have the same issue but from
a different perspective. In this case, the ID of the car and the units sold are both coming from the
cars sold table and this is why the units sold are now displayed correctly but the units produced are
coming from another table
and this is why the units produced are displayed wrong.
So this is the background that we have in that little example,
let's now go back to the relationship view because this is where the problem comes from, right?
We have to create a relationship between the cars produced and the cars sold table,
let's see how we can do this.
So this is what the structure looks like,
so we have the cars produced,
the cars sold and the product type.
Now the easiest thing that we could do is we could simply connect the both ID car columns right of
the cars produced and of the cars sold table.
Let's do that and we learn how to do that by dragging it right here
and now we have an error, we don't know that
and let's see what it says.
It says that we can't create a relationship between those two columns because one of the columns must
have unique values and we don't have unique values because as we saw in the data view, in the cars
produced and in the cars sold table, we have all car types multiple times,
this means we cannot create a relationship like this,
so let's press OK.
But what we have, we have that product type and in that product type table, we only have each car ID once,
so we have unique values.
Now what happens if we simply click right here onto ID car in the cars produce table and drag that to
the product type ID car column?
Then we established a relationship, a many-to-one relationship because we now have the connection between
the multiple car IDs and the unique car IDs in the product type table,
let's see if that changed something.
Now for a moment, nothing changed
so let's go back.
Maybe we also have to connect the ID car of the car sold with the product type, ID car column.
Let's see if this works.
So I'm now connecting this one
and now let's go back to the report view
and still, this is not working
but why is this not working?
Well let's go back to the relationship view again,
I know it's kind of jumping around at the moment but I think it's the best way to understand that step
by step.
So at the moment, we have the problem that the filter direction limits us because if you look at that
arrows right here, you can see that the further direction is only from the product type table to the
cars produce table.
So because of that, those two tables, so the cars produce table and the cars sold table,
they cannot communicate,
so we need a way on how to change that single filter direction to a cross filter direction
and if you remember back what we had on the illustration, this is exactly what we can do. If we double
click onto that line right here and go down to cardinality which is fine,
many-to-one, this is correct but then change the cross filter direction from single to both and press
OK, then you can see that we now have two arrows right here and
here we only have one arrow
and because of that two arrows, now those two tables are able to communicate with each other in both
ways
and what that means?
Well let's go back to the illustration.
This means that now the units sold are also displayed correctly,
the only problem is that in our second table, this doesn't work and why doesn't this work?
Well if we go back to the relationship view, then we can see that we still have that single filter direction
right here.
Now let's click onto that line and set that cross filter direction to both and click OK
and if we now go back to the report view,
we can see that this is also working perfectly right now
and that's the purpose of that cross filter direction.
If you have problems like that and if you have to create a many-to-many relationship, then you can do
it simply by creating something like this and using two many-to-one relationships and setting the cross
filter direction to both because then you can create relationships and by the charts, the way we did
it right here.
Now for our project, we don't need that,
however I just wanted to make sure that you basically understood how this works and how to create such
relationships in Power BI desktop.
However we now understand what the cross filter direction means but we still didn't talk about the active properties,
right?
Let's do that in the next video.